Now it's time to jump into the technical details of creating this solution.
This is the first of two pretty code‑heavy sections.
But don't worry.
After the last module,
you should see several familiar things and be able to follow along.
Now first, we'll cover the code to create the Kubernetes cluster.
As we go through it,
I'll explain the important parts about what makes it work
and how it's different from the standalone SQL Server
instance you saw in the last module.
After that, we'll go live, and you can follow as we build this online.
Here in this slide, to create the cluster on AKS,
you can see that we use the az aks create command.
The cluster is named SQLAG.
In this example, the node count is bumped up to 3,
and the node VM size is bumped up to the standard B2ms level,
which has to virtual CPUs and 8GB of RAM.
I guess the important part here is that I used a larger VM size in this
example because availability groups require a bit more memory than the
plain vanilla SQL Server installation.
Next,
we need to get the credentials for that cluster so
we can manage it with kubectl, and the az aks get credentials command does that.
After retrieving the credentials and then running the kubectl get nodes command,
you can see the output here, and you can see that we have three nodes running.
Remember, these commands work for Azure Kubernetes services.
If you're using a different Kubernetes provider,
you'll have to use the commands that work for your provider,
so they'll be a little bit different.
But if you run this on Azure Kubernetes services,
you can run the code just as it is.
Next, let's look at creating the storage for our three SQL Server pods.
Like you saw before,
we defined the storage in a YAML file that we can create
by running the kubectl apply command that you can see
here at the top of the screen.
The sqlAGstorage.yaml file that's used to declaratively define the
storage is shown in the top part of the screen.
First,
a storage class is defined that tells Kubernetes
what type of Azure storage to use.
Since this is a test example, I used Standard_LRS.
If this were a production system,
I would have used the higher‑performant Standard_SSDLRS or Premium_LRS types.
In the bottom portion of the screen,
you can see where the first of three persistent volume claims is defined.
This is the one for the pod that will act as the primary
replica in the availability group.
The claim name is mssql‑pdb.
The ReadWriteOnce declaration means that only one pod
at a time can use this storage.
And at the bottom, you can see that 8GB will be allocated.
This slide is a continuation of the previous sqlAGstorage.yaml file.
This shows how the next two persistent volumes are going to be created.
The specs are essentially the same as the
persistentVolumeClaim that we used for the primary replica.
However, here, each different persistentVolumeClaim has its own name.
The first one for the first secondary is mssql‑s1db.
The next one for the second secondary replica is called mssql‑s2db.
Okay, now on to the actual deployment.
First we're going to look at the
sqlAGPdeployment.yaml file that you can see here.
This defines the primary SQL Server Availability Group replica.
There's going to be two more of these files,
sqlAGS1deployment.yaml and sqlAGS2deployment.yaml for the
two secondary availability group replicas.
The kubectl apply command that you can see at the top of
the screen will create this deployment.
The first part of the sqlAGdeployment file is starting with
kind, declaring that this is a deployment.
Next,
a replica set is defined that will ensure that one replica is always running.
This replica set will work with the mssql‑primary app
that we're defining in this deployment.
This is a continuation of that sqlAGPdeployment.yaml file.
So far, this looks a lot like the example from the previous module.
However, here's where you're going to begin to see some differences.
At the top of the screen,
you can see where we define the hostname that will be used with the pod.
We need to do this because, by default,
Kubernetes will make the hostname the same as the pod name,
which is quite long, exceeding the availability group maximum length.
The hostname assigned here will be the hostname for the SQL
Server instance that's used in our example.
Next,
you can see where we're pulling the latest Red Hat Enterprise Linux
version of SQL Server 2019 from Microsoft's repository.
In the middle of the screen,
you can see where the environment variables that are required
for SQL Server Linux containers are defined.
Like the example in the last module, ACCEPT_EULA is required for licensing.
MSSQL_PID specifies the edition of the SQL Server that we're using,
and, in this case, it's the developer edition.
What's new is the MSSQL_ENABLE_HADR and the MSSQL_AGENT_ENABLED declarations.
MSSQL_ENABLE_HDR is a prerequisite that's required
to support availability groups.
MSSQL_AGENT_ENABLED makes sure that the SQL agent is available on
the SQL Server instance that we're creating.
Next, the password is supplied from a Kubernetes secret.
That's pretty much the same.
And at the bottom,
you can see another new section where we're
limiting the pod's memory utilization.
This controls how much memory the pod can consume.
If we leave this blank, it's possible the pod will consume too much memory,
resulting in its being evicted from the cluster.
Next, we can see the last part of the sqlAGPdeployment file.
At the top,
you can see the mount point that the container will use for external storage.
We defined this external storage earlier with the persistentVolumeClaim.
Note that the claim here has to match the name we used when
we defined that persistentVolumeClaim.
In the bottom portion beneath the dashes,
you can see the definition for the load balancing service
that's going to be used with this deployment.
The selector defines the app that this service is going to work with,
and, in this case, it's the mssql‑primary app.
Below that, you can see the ports that are going to be opened.
Port 1433 is the default port for SQL Server.
For simplicity,
I've kept the default ports both inside and outside the pod the same.
However, this isn't required.
You could change the external port if you wanted.
Port 5022 is the default port for SQL Server endpoints.
SQL Server Availability Groups communicate over endpoints.
So opening and endpoint here is required for availability group
replicas to communicate with one another.
Here again, for simplicity, I've kept the port assignments the same.
I know this has been quite a bit of code, but we're almost there.
And hopefully, a lot of this has been familiar.
As I mentioned earlier, this example is using three different deployment files.
If you wanted, you could put them all into one big file.
But I separated them to make it easier to logically follow
the different parts of this deployment.
All of the deployment files are quite similar,
but there are some important differences.
Here's the sqlAGS1deployment.yaml file that defines the
deployment for the first secondary replica.
At the top,
you can see where the kubectl apply command will create this deployment,
and this is the one for our secondary replica.
As I mentioned,
this is very similar to the deployment that was used
for the availability group primary.
However, there are some important differences.
So let's go through and see how this declaration differs
from the first one for our primary.
First, you can see that the deployment has a different name.
This one is called mssqlag‑secondary1‑deployment
for our first secondary replica.
Next, you can see that our app name here is different.
Here we're using the app name of mssql‑secondary1,
again for our first secondary replica.
So those are two differences.
Next, moving on to the second part of this deployment,
you can see where the hostname has been set to mssql‑secondary1.
This is also going to be the name of the SQL Server
instance for the secondary replica.
The other specs we see here for the image and the environment variables,
they're pretty much the same.
In the last part of this deployment file for the secondary replica,
you can see where the mount point for the container is set to that
persistentVolumeClaim that we created for the secondary.
This is different from what we use before.
And here, our persistentVolumeClaim is named mssql‑s1db.
You can also see that the load balancing service at the
bottom is using a different name.
The ports are all the same.
The difference here is that this service is using the app selector
of mssql‑secondary1 for the secondary replica.
Okay, the deployment for the next secondary replica is pretty much the same.
I won't go through that here.
But the same points that were changed in this deployment were also changed
for the deployment that was used for mssql‑secondar2. And we'll see that in just a second as we build all this live.